# Yaqut

Yaqut, visionary political theorist of the 2070s, created the first Oracle and
laid the foundations of what would become Pickerism not soon after. Interfaced
in 2048 by his rich family, Yaqut was one of the first people to voluntarily go
beyond the return limit at 18 years old. He embedded himself full-time at first
in the newly founded Bussard Mesh (`1:700`), like any good hached mesher, but
eventually decided to commit part-time to his personal studies. With the
significant money he made from the Bussard Mesh over the course of 4 years
(given his knack for meshing), he bought an expensive cryotank capable of
`1:2000` haching. Further, due to the new political climate of the Data War, he
used the new cryotank for 4 years. During his thousand-year deep dive into the
writings of hundreds of political theorists, past and present, he came to the
conclusion "kill whitey". He proved his conclusion with a 14 thousand-page work
of symbolic logic. Scholars were, despite millions of man-years, not able to
disprove his sound conclusion.

Following his political work, Yaqut moved onto other areas of study. Sometime
during this shift, although the exact details are vague, Yaqut discovered the
existence of Pickers by accidentally creating an Oracle (a machine which allows
Pickers to communicate by interacting with a few, easily observable quantum
particles). Some argued that Yaqut's Oracle was fake, and that all Oracles made
after follow in line, and this is a fairly popular view. Some argued that
Pickerism was invented by Yaqut to enact his Conclusion upon the world. In this
way, Yaqut was seen as the anti-Yakubian of his time. Regardless, he died in
2080 after being assassinated in-person by a victim of a Super-Chooser.
