---
title:
- type: main
  text: Interface
#- type: subtitle
#  text: A novel
creator:
- role: author
  text: Jonah Spector
- role: editor
  text: Elliot Fetterman
identifier:
- scheme: DOI
  text: doi:10.234234.234/33
publisher:  My Press
rights: © 2024 Jonah Spector, CC BY-NC-ND
---\n\n\n\n
# The Birth of Jordan Hayes

<!-- In this day and age, people consider themselves blessed by their mechanical
eyes. The average set is within the average means, and so, onto every newborn
--- as if  it were circumcision --- a set is weaved. -->

The intricate machinery of installation took no more than a minute to gift her
an Interface. A few dozen small autonomous spider robots buried into the womb.
For the mother in question, given their lack of Interface and requirement of the
operation to be performed without aensthetia.


A few dozen small autonomous spider-like robots bury into the womb, although if
the birther has their own neural-interface, all feeling in the area can easily
be disabled. The robots then incase the fetus completely. Each robot locks
itself onto the creature, anchoring using bone and flesh to make sure the
process takes place in a stable environment. Billions of pins thinner than a
micrometer are pulled out of the robots' stores and inserted delicately through
the skin. The heads of these pins are slightly larger --- around five
micrometers --- and they guide the pins into positions with their pre-programmed
route. Only minor corrections are made on the journey by its onboard "computer",
if you could call it one, since it is little more than a single artificially
engineered cell with cilia and a biological instruction set. The patient is to
remain perfectly still during the procedure, which lasts around five-or-so
minutes. Once the pins are in position, the heads self-destruct and the coating
on the ends begins its work. The organic polymers of the pins are produced by
most cells in the human body, so the coating serves to repair and maintain the
pins' position by tricking cells into maintaining the pins' structures. When the
coating runs out and the pin begins to drift, more can be sent down the tubule
to the end. Neurotransmission only occurs at the end of each pin where the head
dissolves, so only the end needs to be secured in place.

The apparatus is placed on each head with vice grip pressure; metal bands circle
right above the ears. Connected are two flat metal rings which slope off from
the metal bands smoothly. They each hover over an eye with the same profile as
the metal bands; the mandibles reside on its edge, each with a mind of its own,
each pulsating on its own clocks. The violence of extraction is short lived:
each eye is drained of its fluid via a large extendable syringe attached with a
tripod to the ring. Tubes run from the end of each syringe to a small flask
placed on either side of the patient. The mandibles handle the remaining flesh
quickly cutting it, with a few hoisting the trimmings out of the socket. As they
are trimmed, the nerves are handled with extra care, and after completion, the
careful dance of each wire follows. Hundreds of mandibles sever nerves and
stitch them to millions of wires, each with an attached tubule for the
transmission of miscellaneous fluids. Busying away, they have a pleasant
clicking sound like metallic raindrops. Finally, the wires are quickly soldered
by the mandibles onto the back of the new eyes as they descend into the socket.
Lubrication follows: a sticky fluid is pumped under each eyelid by an operator,
and the body is forced to accept the new eyes through careful manipulation and
calibration of the fluid prior to its injection. Furthermore, the eyes are
carefully designed to have the same size and pressure as the original, so the
muscles don't take long to adapt. Since the operation is often performed on
newborns, the backplate of each eye is removable so the eyes can be swapped out
when needed, although the back plate cannot. Thus the process is complete, the
new eyes swivel limply for a few seconds before the muscles and nerve endings
are reactivated.

The pupils of each eye are false, a camera resides on the inside, usually
surrounded by mineral oil. Colors and the design can be customized to personal
preference, but the first set is designed to look identical to the original
eyes. With such powerful sensors, most eyes record with over a hundred million
pixels, and thousands of captures each second. The eyes can switch between high
capture rate and high resolution at the behest of the user: at higher
resolutions, the extra captures are interlaced with previous captures to produce
a better image, reducing the number of captures while improving each image.
Small refillable reservoirs of chemicals reside in the back of the eyes for
transmission down any tubule whenever necessary. Lenses also allow the user to
zoom to different magnifications, as well as see in other light spectrums,
mostly infrared. But, the biggest use case of these machines --- colloquially
called "neural-vision" --- is their ability to work in tandem with a
"neural-interface", which connects to the spine and brain. Neural-interfaces are
installed in the womb, as doing so later on in life with a less plastic brain
isn't possible as far as people know [this is why some people are
"un-interfaced"]. The interface needs to be exposed to each unique nervous
system since birth to make sure signals are handled properly. Their installation
in the womb is standardized, at least one pin per hundred neurons --- including
the spine and peripheral nervous system, or less if one can afford it. Each pin
is coated in a special substance to trick neurons into constructing connecting
synapses. These coerced synapses also connect to each pin's tubule for chemical
neurotransmission.

A few dozen small autonomous spider-like robots bury into the womb, although if
the birther has their own neural-interface, all feeling in the area can easily
be disabled. The robots then incase the fetus completely. Each robot locks
itself onto the creature, anchoring using bone and flesh to make sure the
process takes place in a stable environment. Billions of pins thinner than a
micrometer are pulled out of the robots' stores and inserted delicately through
the skin. The heads of these pins are slightly larger --- around five
micrometers --- and they guide the pins into positions with their pre-programmed
route. Only minor corrections are made on the journey by its onboard "computer",
if you could call it one, since it is little more than a single artificially
engineered cell with cilia and a biological instruction set. The patient is to
remain perfectly still during the procedure, which lasts around five-or-so
minutes. Once the pins are in position, the heads self-destruct and the coating
on the ends begins its work. The organic polymers of the pins are produced by
most cells in the human body, so the coating serves to repair and maintain the
pins' position by tricking cells into maintaining the pins' structures. When the
coating runs out and the pin begins to drift, more can be sent down the tubule
to the end. Neurotransmission only occurs at the end of each pin where the head
dissolves, so only the end needs to be secured in place.

The pin roots, still attached to the robots, are connected to a single
conductive wire --- which runs down the spine and to the base of the brain, with
each tubule expanding to a small reservoir connected to a few main reservoirs
for replenishment. When more fluid is needed, it is injected using a syringe
into the reservoirs which have self-healing walls. The same process is used for
the separate supplementary eye reservoirs. Prior to insertion, each pin is
designed to only respond to certain frequencies, with pins close to each other
having similar but different frequencies. Therefore, all pins connect to the
same cable, with frequencies being modulated on the cable to control specific
pins. Pins are made of extremely high-strength materials, but the cable is
normally just made of copper or some other cheap metal encased in silicone as it
runs down the back. It is around a millimeter in size as opposed to the
micrometer-sized pins. The cable --- with small tubes for each fluid, gates at
each pin tubule --- and all the reservoirs fit in the back of the neck taking up
only a few cubic centimeters; the cable leaves the body at the base of the
skull. It is small (no more than the size of an average consumer cable port),
and to accommodate for the user, the port is female. Only one signal [not to be
confused with Network signals] --- split into many frequencies --- is passed in,
and on a different set of frequencies the signal is read out again. The cable
port is circular and around a centimeter in diameter with a small metal rim; it
receives a small coax-like cable for connection.

Unmentioned and widely unpopular despite its functionality, is the use of
neural-interfaces in human–machine interaction [outside and independent of the
Network]. Plenty of devices can interact with neural-interfaces however, and
their military application is obvious. Jets and other high performance vehicles
are almost required to have support for piloting via neural-interfaces,
otherwise their competitive statuses would plummet quickly. In spaceflight,
neural-interfaces are often used to put the user in a coma during interplanetary
voyages, or on ice (dead) for interstellar missions. As long as the position and
health of the neurons is preserved on a journey when the pilot is put on ice, if
the neural activity was recorded at the instant before the body was killed but
preserved, these pins may be able to stimulate the exact same activity once the
body is unfrozen. Of course, this has never actually worked, but that hasn't
stopped humans from damning their own kind to the void in hopes of fulfilling
their colonial ambitions. Furthermore, the dreams of immortality held by the few
are likewise fruitless.

Unlike the actual neural-interface, a neural-engine can be replaced whenever, or
entirely avoided. People often call the neural-engine the "neural-interface",
even though they're different. Neural-engines can be swapped out whenever by
just unplugging one and plugging another in, but they should be turned off
during this swap to avoid any issues. People often use different neural-engines
for different things: low-powered ones can fit flush to a person's back, even
blending in with a person's skin color or hosting elaborate designs;
high-powered stationary setups that take up entire rooms can give users more
power for whatever use they may have; group-use neural-engines have multiple
ports to connect users to each other's minds with low latency; hidden ultra-low
power neural-engines which fit into the actual plug flush against a person's
back, although these are mostly used to protect against any person trying to
connect something to your cable port ("plug-jacking" done by "plug-jackers").
These ultra-low power neural-engines normally can't do more than overlay a task
list or what the weather is in your vision space. Neural-vision, and most other
standard sensory replacements work without external software, but with the
addition of a neural-engine and a neural-interface, the output can be modified
however the user wants by simply passing the output directly into individual
specialized pins for processing. This is normally already setup if pins are
placed in the ocular nerve; the mandibles automatically connect a few of them,
and once the new eyes are in position, they will send an initialization signal
down the pins to tell the neural-engine that "these pins are in use by me", or
in reality, a high-voltage signal that the body cannot naturally produce, then a
binary–analog signal which gives information about the hardware and that it is
operational.

Neural-engine software varies in impact from just an overlay in your vision, to
complete immersion in another environment. Databanks can be attached externally
for mass data storage, such as books and indexes of information. Most
neural-engines have at least a few terabytes of storage, but with home setups,
it can balloon to hundreds or even thousands of terabytes. Neural-record
software also allows you to record your mind, that being the sum total of your
experiences, emotions, and sense of the world during the recorded period.
Different resolutions can be selected when recording your mental state: at low
resolutions, the experience may just feel like a dream, but at high enough
resolutions --- which often take terabytes per second to record --- it's
indistinguishable from reality. This is the modern equivalent to cinema;
production houses often buy out huge databanks to record weeks or even years of
neural-records, which are normally called "neurons". These ultra-high-quality
neurons often need to be streamed over the network since most people don't just
have a few exabytes of storage sitting around. The playback speed when reliving
a neuron can be set to whatever you want, with the experiences in your mind
still taking just as long. Many people put themselves into week-long neurons and
come out as if just a few seconds passed. Of course, the obvious use of this
technology is pornography, and the vast majority of neurons on the network
amount to nothing more than this.

It is standard to give a neural-interface to every baby, but it is less standard
to install any sensory devices beyond neural-vision. Many other such devices do
exist, but the core functionality neural-vision allows for is critical to most
modern jobs and education, so it is installed by default. Most modern academies
now exclusively use neural-vision overlays for teaching. There is a movement
against this, but it is small, and no noticeable movement exists against
installing neural-interfaces by default, since they can be disabled by just
filling your port with any non-conductive plug, and since they can only be
installed in the womb. Overall, artificial enhancements are broken down into two
categories: physical and cognitive. These are broken down into further
subcategories such as: sensory, memory, endurance, strength, etc. Many people
chose to install more invasion physical enhancements: skull, rib, and bones,
fitted with reinforced plating and special membranes to allow blood and other
fluids to flow; high-performance hearts for increased stamina; synthetic livers,
intestines, kidneys, and other digestive organs for aid in processing
less-than-high-quality food as well as improving nutrient uptake and retention;
artificial neural-audio implants for enhanced hearing. Olfactory enhancements
exist, but they are yet to be on par with natural smell. Cognitive enhancements
--- which often function without the need for a specific neural-engine --- are
often more popular: "calculator" add-ons to allow a user to do basic math
without needing a neural-engine; digital memory storage in the brain to preserve
long term memories outside of any system via neural-engine; encryption suites
which account for the plaintext nature of unciphered organic memory, often
installed with parental consent or at adulthood; organic memory management
suites intended to annihilate or recover organic memories; deadman switches with
the ability to annihilate digital and organic memories postmortem. Plenty more
exist.

Installation of cognitive enhancements is usually the least invasive, and
therefore more popular. Since a neural-interface is sure to already be
installed, chips --- no more than a centimeter in size --- are encased in a
protective material and "injected" at the base of the neck through a small slit
which is opened prior. To best utilize the operation, it is common to get many
enhancements at the same time. The chips have their own mobility through their
own "spider legs", which once inside the brain case, go to work positioning the
chip onto, or in the brain itself. The legs then split into a few dozen
mandibles each for use in finding neural interface pins to disconnect from the
main bus and onto the chip, or, if the chip is intended for use alongside a
neural-engine and not independent of it (which is rare), a dedicated wire
unspools and connects to the neural-engine's main wire. More physical
enhancements often have to be installed by a human operator through actual
surgery, like bone plating, which is installed by cutting into the torso and
every limb down to the bone, and then pouring molten metal (with its spread
contained by small buffers placed on the flesh to either side of the bone) onto
them. This has to be repeated from all angles to cover the entire bone, and it
often takes days or even weeks to fully install, but the patient can be put into
a temporary coma using their neural-interface, so the procedure can go
uninterrupted. Organ replacements are likewise quite invasive.

1Encryption suites work with both organic and digital memories: for organic
memories, the specific engram2 formation pattern of neurons is manipulated into
a cipher pattern. Neurons are manipulated to interact differently with ciphered
patterns. Digital memories are, of course, much easier to encrypt, and more
secure, as the position of information is lost completely upon encryption,
unlike with engrams where the position of neurons can only be ciphered to a
limited degree without the information being lost. The highest security
available on the market for organic memory encryption is around eighty-five bits
of security, which with modern technology would take beyond a responsible time
to break anyways, but for digital memories, the security is at minimum
two-hundred and fifty-six bits strong, impossible to break by all known
theoretical means. Thought patterns and general brain activity are also ciphered
by the encryption suite to make mental activity secure, this is less secure then
individual memory encryption since it is encrypting the patterns of
neurotransmission on the fly, and the attack surface is much larger, that being
the entire brain. So, if an adversary were to place a malicious neural-engine
into their victim, if they have their organic memory encrypted, without access
to the encryption suite (which is not connected to the neural-engine; the user
uses it in tandem with the neural-engine as middleware) and the neural-signal,
decrypting thoughts and memories is impossible. The encryption suite also stores
its datakeys off the neural-interface in a protected chip, but older models do
have plenty of vulnerabilities in their security chips, and the datakeys are
still accessed --- although to volatile storage --- by the system when
encrypting organic or digital objects.

 All humans also have slightly different neural characteristics, often referred
 to as a whole as the "neural-signal" of a person. This neural-signal is used by
 encryption suites in lieu of an organic memory password --- which, as with all
 organic memories, is encrypted by the suite already --- with the datakeys
 stored on the security chip. Impersonating another's neural-signal is
 incredibly difficult, but possible with enough time to directly access their
 neural-interface. Another mind can infiltrate their target's mind and
 impersonate them to decrypt their engram pattern and steal their memories, but,
 even with the neural-signal, if the target is secure enough, infiltrating their
 system in the first place may prove to be even more difficult. There is really
 no exfiltration proof way of storing information, and with enough work, any
 person's security can be broken. Many enhancements require special, or even
 proprietary neural-engine software to function --- but many can function (fully
 or limited) without the use of a neural-engine, such as neural-vision and most
 cognitive enhancements. Plenty of honeypots have been created by different
 organizations, but as long as a user sticks to their own homegrown software or
 software from trusted sources, getting yourself stuck in a honeypot is
 incredibly difficult.

Besides individual use of neural-engines, people often connect to what is called
the "net": a collection of computers each running an instance of some
communication protocol, normally the "network protocol", which allows for other
protocols to run on top of it. Connecting requires a direct line between your
neural-engine and the computer serving your local hub --- which connects to
other hubs and so on eventually forming a global ad hoc network. Plenty of
computers have open lines when connecting to hubs to allow other users to
interact; this is the main way people use the network. Various social hubs,
archives, entertainment and the like exist on these different hubs, the most
popular sometimes hosting thousands or even millions of users at a time. Unlike
physical connections with group-use neural-engines, hubs have some amount of
latency depending on the number of hubs your connection has to connect to on its
journey, which when attempting to interact in real time with the environment or
other users can definitely break emersion to some degree if you're deranged
enough. Plenty of hubs also let you open datastreams3 into neurons or other
things to give you access to more data than your neural-engine's maximum
capacity.

Various overlay communication protocols exist for different purposes. Some allow
two or more users to inhabit the same avatar in a hub, both having their
neural-interfaces meshed together --- two minds in one body. Others allow you to
have a "proxy" avatar --- which appears as you or a pseudonym --- but is nothing
more than a replica intended to protect you from any net-hackers4 by redirecting
their attacks. There are protocols which allow two users to create a "virtual"
hub across the network for personal use, such as crypt-room, and many others for
secure one-on-one communication outside of hubs. Most importantly, some, like
the infamous "Cipher" (which uses its own proxying system), allow users to visit
hubs anonymously, with persistent avatars if desired. The implications of Cipher
are horrifying to most, and to some, a gamble worth taking: they are the primary
motivator behind the usage of the protocol.

* * *

\n\n\n\n
\n\n\n\n
\n\n\n\n
\n\n\n\n
\n\n\n\n
\n\n\n\n
\n\n\n\n
\n\n\n\n
\n\n\n\n
\n\n\n\n
