FIRST LINE. Small apartment buildings fill the area between interspersed
commercial centers; it is generally considered the suburbs of the city, but it
is significantly more dense than American suburbia. Most of the buildings are
simple, painted white, although they become colorful at dusk, covered with
varied shades of neon and synth-bioluminescence. In the desert sun, the
genetically engineered paint absorbs enough energy to brighten the city, though
dim, in a beautifully unique spectacle, even without the traditional,
supplemental electric lamps. Wisps of the glyph-philic, luminescent graffiti
rise into the air as the sun sets; the sky blackens and the air becomes crisp
and clear. Kernel City awakens into the night.

Fayçal’s skimpy streetcar dinged and he hopped off leaving it empty. A rare,
isolated, fluorescent, motion-activated street lamp flipped on, blinding his
organic, albinic piercing blue eyes momentarily—blackened eyelids mechanically
lowered then raised. His pale body clenched and his hands quickly found their
place in his obnoxious, myriad pink fur coat, part of a wardrobe built for the
cold nights since the Sinai sun would surely kill him. As he walked to The
Ardara, the crowd grew thick. Neon green and pink graffiti encased his warehouse
destination. One depicted a half-skeleton pointing a finger gun to the knife in
his head, with something written in non-legible Arabic. Fayçal admired it,
before continuing his casual walk to the nightclub, a little around the bend.

All together, the man’s appearance is absurd, even by local standards, but no
one batted an eye during his walk. His somewhat spiky, fluffy white hair and
dark makeup doesn’t stand out, but his overtly masculine face in contrast does.
With white stubble and thick, dyed eyebrows, he appears older than he is.
Although rather tall and a tad thin, his face is still wide.

However he never carries himself absurdly. He’s far too serious, but not
necessarily industrious; his appearance would suggest an eccentric or flamboyant
person, but his face is truly revealing of him. He has worked as a psychiatrist
for almost a decade, only now moving to contracting (as he describes it). In the
age of cybernetic mental augmentation, his skills become less valuable as
technology gains the ability to diagnose and solve mental problems, although
there is still one use for his skills now, at least the best he can think of:
communication. Dealing with parties not inclined to share their thoughts via
cybernetics is a key job.

He sees these dealings as “puzzles,” even within the natural chaos of the human
mind; something he solves the same way as any other. His process is as follows:
first, identify the goal and the starting conditions of one or more minds.
Everything they are prior to contact, where mental matters persist. A puzzle is,
of course, impossible without the use of tools (even as simple as using your
hand to move a piece), which Fayçal finds in these mental matters. Then, find
the subset of tools and their positions in the mind which allows access to the
goal by another tool or a direct, universally applicable pathway.

Despite the small market for non-Interfaced cybernetics, he has never installed
anything, not even the most basic transcriber. He endlessly types instead, no
cybernetics to aid him. The hours of research on targets that could have been
done in overclocked minutes emphasizes to him how short his life really is;
maybe 50 more years until he will die of natural causes, something he could
easily extend to 500 years with an Interface. Only those in their 20s and below
are ubiquitously Interfaced, but he is old enough to have been born at a time of
the earliest Interface development, before wide-spread adoption.

Now, as he traveled to the nightclub, he reviewed the tools he acquired from
background research alone on one Lewis Rodney. His investigation was primarily
on the old internet, where he sifted through public posts mirrored from the
matrix and made lines of anonymous communication to the man himself. One must be
careful not to alter the mind, as even the slightest unintentional text from
such a master psychologist as him is enough to provoke a murder-suicide in the
happyest person. Fayçal was careful, though, posing as an organized digital
fling with Fulco, using image and audio filters to maintain anonymity.

The film-maker’s mind was revealed to be entirely logical on the surface; a wall
of ruthless no-nonsense built up over decades. But Fayçal saw the trick, a
little sliver, a crack in the wall. Something so unique and so hidden as to be
almost impossible to uncover. Finding this single uniquity revealed the tools,
all that was left was the order and positioning of them, the part he has solved
as far as he knows; but until execution, the faults in his plan can not be
revealed beyond what he can predict.

***

Fayçal arrived at The Ardara and checked his phone: 4:55 a.m. The queue curled
around the block, down the side alleyway, and to a steep staircase drilled in
the side of the unmarked building Fayçal stands beside. The skull graffiti sits
on the far side of the alleyway and the stairs seemingly enter the back of the
building in an alley, although the streets are more than convoluted. Multiple
overlapping shades randomly ascended the alleyway in a planar mesh. The sheets
each have their own luminescent designs etched in. Minute condensation built on
them, dripping down to the concrete below. At the base of the dugout stairs is a
thick steel door for entry to the nightclub, where an atmosphere of fog and red
neon emanated, struggling around the seemingly airtight seal. It will not open
to the public until 5:00 a.m on Fridays.

Fayçal popped two pills: Kernelaid and a sensory booster of some kind.
Kernelaid, taken by the majority of Kernel citizens, is generally enough to
stave off the effects of nocturnalism, but it requires almost constant low-dose
administration. It gives the adequate nutrients missing from moonlight and
enslaves the circadian rhythm, although Interfaced people generally only use it
for the nutrients since the Interface handles the rest neuro-digitally.
Temperatures during the day are near inhospitable, but people really only
nocturnalize themselves to match their jobs as it’s certainly possible to be
diurnal. The booster, his specific substance not being a common sight, is a
stimulant which increases blood flow to the eyes and most brain tissue, among
other things. Taking too much reddens the sclera—even the smallest amount has a
visual effect to a trained eye—but Fayçal limits himself. Its effects take a few
minutes to kick in, so he feels unaffected. The Kernelaid has no noticeable
effect on serial users like him, so he feels nothing from both pills.

Suddenly, the door opened. A short, bulky bouncer stepped out. What can only be
described as hardcore Noise followed him for a second before he closed the door.
The bouncer barely managed to squeeze into his spot, pushing the crowd on the
stairs back with loud verbal commands but no force. He was armed with a 9mm
pistol and a simple armored vest like the other patrolling security guards. They
each have noticeable luminescent patches with The Ardara’s logo, and a few
occasionally walk up and down the line, but never enough to weird people out.
The bouncer continued, settling into position, surely checking his eye widgets
for the time, or maybe synth-intuition. He looks to the right at nothing so the
latter is most likely. It is unusual, but many people still prefer the tactile
feeling. Fayçal watched the kerfuffle before moving to the end of the queue.

He walked, hands in the pockets of his pink fur coat, observing the variety of
people waiting to attend The Ardara. Scantily clad partygoers shivered in the
freezing desert, most glowing with not-necessarily-safe paint-on luminescent
strips. The most popular colors seem to be the shades between blue and green.
The glowing paint covered faces and exposed skin in unique, twisting patterns,
blending into the patterns already painted onto clothing. Kernel City depends
heavily on the substance for cheap lighting at night, so body paint has always
been incredibly popular due to its convenience. One person wore sunglasses with
six inch long spikes, forming from the frames and jutting out, which Fayçal
wished he had. Puddles formed from the condensation of mass human breath in the
dry air.

Finally, he arrived at the end of the queue. She had long blonde hair and golden
loops on both forearms. Fayçal watched her from behind before quickly
distracting himself with his phone. The line moved quickly, the bouncer
profiling people digitally using government registered genetags, often embedded
in wrist-jacks or put on cards, and a wireless genetag reader. Of course, no one
argues that the policy is authoritarian; they are obviously not compulsory, just
very difficult to live without. All people have the human right to absolute
sovereignty over their own genomes, at least under U.N. declaration, but Fayçal
always decides to fake his genetag with a patch of vat grown skin on his
forearm, so he could care less about human rights. In front of him was a woman
in a modest red dress.

“Hey mistah, you mind?” Fayçal looked up and was met with a pair of pale blue
eyes. Pretty girl, Fayçal thought to himself. She looked young, but she was just
as tall as Fayçal, the same size too.

The bouncer checked the digital profiles of visitors for cybernetic weaponry and
age, including Fayçal via his wrist-jack. The bouncer has the standard combat
enhancements, but does seem disciplined in their usage. His unimportance is
striking to Fayçal—it blends with the traffic of the early nightclub goers.
There is a calm normality to it that Fayçal enjoys. Deals are best done in this
company.

Aside from the druggies and partygoers, a man and a robot sit at a circular
booth talking quietly. The robot smokes a cigar, seemingly just because it can.
The robot relaxes its frame into the cushion and crosses its synth-skinned arms
as Fayçal approaches. Fayçal walks without hesitation to the booth, going in for
an immediate handshake.

“Fulco, yes? Shall we?” Fayçal said as they shook hands. The man shifts himself to the middle of the booth as Fayçal sits flattening his pink coat to the seat. “Who’s the other?”
The man puts his elbows on the table and a palm to his chin in an L-shape
smiling but not showing his teeth. He has a thinner frame than Fayçal, but he is
the same average height.

“Fucking superfluous stairs,” Fayçal thinks to himself.

“It’s almost like your creator didn’t know that Fayçal was a girl’s name,” he said.
“Shut up,” Fayçal responded.

The Expulsion: aṭ-Ṭardu