
Word so unpronounceable it is deadly.

My method uses the concept of queerness as a conduit!

Can't look hurt when shopping, lest the megacorp face rec price gouge me.
Everyone paranoid, black mirror social media type shopping.

Migration of _those_ fucking scooters

Megacorps fight for control of nuclear power planets to run AI datacenters.

Ai suicide drones from mystery factories

Sand showers, other no water things

Sonja


Language has 42 dimensions

https://www.reddit.com/r/196/comments/1g1lyv5/rule/

https://preview.redd.it/engines-rule-v0-3o2ftr1sbaud1.jpeg?auto=webp&s=d4ce09b52851f93c927e98e74c05993273eb8891


Zhihao created the Cipher.



Bangladesh trash landscape

Overexerting your data rate leads to instant (deadly) signal severance. This is
what happens in the last stand of runners in the Matrix.



https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiple_independently_targetable_reentry_vehicle#/media/File:Minuteman_III_MIRV_path.svg

https://preview.redd.it/4090-vs-brain-v0-ye6rvsolalqd1.jpeg?width=1080&crop=smart&auto=webp&s=8c32bc155415ee55c5d964f3240825243d329e1a


AI Hypercomputer


Adam Task compute allocation:
    90% - Signal processes (8-bit TPU)
    5% - Fee
    5% - Environment compute (double-precision floats)


The reason all avatars in the Matrix are humanoid is because of the requirements
set in place by the Adam Task. Signals, which the Adam Task handles, are the I/O
of the host; it follows that to create the signal _in the first place_ requires
an entity of similar likeness to what normally creates the "organic signal". But
the host can withstand a certain level of difference, which allows for the
famous pseudonym and anonymity of the Cipher. A virtual "spirit" avatar can be
created to embody the signal while the "actual" avatar is non-humanoid, but
controlling this "actual" avatar is no different from controlling a simulated
robot in the Matrix. "Spirit" avatars do not exist as a default protocol in
Program Space, making invisibility without a dedicated Method impossible. (This
invisibility comes from having a "spirit" avatar without an "actual" avatar.)


Elliot: "That PhD's carefully constructed, personalized, tailored, statically
model for host unmasking, which takes in whatever the fuck and spits out some ID
number, so nothing compared to my skills."


Overlooking Kernel City at night from afar on a hill in an open glass modern
home. To discuss the last great development of humankind caused by capitalism, a
last, beautiful death spasm of capitalism.


AI Cold War: Traveler at the top.

Softwar: War over **nebulous** efficiency in software, who has the most
efficient software

Hardwar: War over **finite** hardware

Hosts of humans is monolithic unlike vhosts of ACs which are made of millions of
organs. But, really, don't human hosts also have millions of neural organs? They
are just *something.*


Signals are two parts: 1 and 0

Matrix has concepts programmatically expressed unlike reality, allowing for
conceptualization methods.

I use the Matrix as a conduit for my conceptualization. I feel no fear! I feel
no hunger! Program -> Matrix Conduit -> Signal's concepts programatically
expressed by the Matrix!

Fire walls: exist in Userland to filter out known harmful programs for
connecting users. (Not in Program Space, although rate limit is.)


Rate limit changes? Effected by enemy Methods? What happens at 0 GB/s.

Adam Task

Basic signal BCI takes 90% of computation. Runs distributed on Adam Task, since
all brains share about 90% of the same AI model.

Program Space is a place that loads with no route to Userland picked. Userland
is self-hosted?

Userland pays fee to use the Adam Task signals pool. Why control Program Space?!

The reason wireless jacks are unpopular among professionals is that someone can
break the connection easily, causing damage, whereas a wired one can be locked
in place with a key, to prevent accident disconnection, etc.



